# Description
This repository represents a project I completed with two other teammates during an Introduction to Databases course in college. The objective of the project was to use phpMyAdmin, Python Flask, and HTML to create a simplified version of Instagram capable of features such as:
- User registration and login
- Loading a home page for each user
- Searching through existing posts and users
- Posting and tagging photos
- Liking photos
- Following users and managing your followers

The parts I directly worked on have my name commented above them, which were essentially all the components of the ["Follow" feature](templates/following.html), [viewing a photo](templates/view.html), and [liking a photo](https://github.com/Jazy1618/Faux_Instagram/blob/main/app.py#L385) on the makeshift [website](app.py). Unfortunately the phpMyAdmin database we used for the project no longer exists so it isn't possible to run the Flask app and see how it worked when we were using it, however these files should show a fairly comprehensive overview of the app's design.

Overall, we worked together over the course of about 4 weeks to create this project, taking special consideration for our differing skill levels. In the beginning we decided to start with the basic version of the project requirements and achieve those before adding one of the more advanced components, which in our case was the expansion of our [follow feature](https://github.com/Jazy1618/Faux_Instagram/blob/main/app.py#L285) that I implemented. We gave ourselves a series of benchmarks to track our progress, checking in daily and meeting several times a week to stay up to date on progress and help each other as necessary. I had a great team, and even though it was the first time for all of us to use MySQL in a project like this, our communication and support of each other ended in us getting a rather high score. The deadline we gave ourselves to decide on doing the expanded follow feature was the end of week 3, but we went ahead with the shift a few days earlier when it was clear that our initial version was working very well. While we didn't use a project management tool, we did have regularly scheduled check-ins, and since all of our work was in a shared repository, it was very easy to review and track everyone's progress.

## Viewing a Photo
The simpler of my two features was setting how to view photos, as in what a user is able to see when they scroll over or click on an image that someone has posted. When a user views a photo, they should see the photo, which user posted the photo, the date the photo was posted, who liked the photo, who was tagged in the photo, and the option to like the photo. Each user was only able to view a photo if they themselves posted it, it was posted by a user they follow, or was shared in a group which the user is a part of. If the user has liked the photo, their like is visible to anyone else who views the photo, and they can only like it one time. If they attempt to like the photo a second time, they will see "You liked this photo". All of this information is determined by and updated in the MySQL server that we used for the website, keeping track of all users, their associations to other users, and the content available to them. I created the template for how this would be structured on the website in the [view template](templates/following.html), and it is filled in by the [route view](https://github.com/Jazy1618/Faux_Instagram/blob/main/app.py#L110). I also implemented the feature to [like a photo](https://github.com/Jazy1618/Faux_Instagram/blob/main/app.py#L385), represented in our database by taking the user, time, and photo, ensuring there are no duplicates since a user can not like a photo multiple times.

## Follow Feature
Slightly more complex was the feature to follow other users, which involved:
- Searching users and making a follow request
- Displaying all users who have requested to follow the logged in user
- Displaying the logged in user's current followers
- Displaying who the logged in user currently follows
- Accepting or declining a follow request

I started with outlining the [follow template](templates/following.html) as a page where everything related to following or being followed was easy to engage with. The first case I considered was someone wanting to find and follow another user, very straightforward. This required having a search feature to look for a provided user, and if the username provided existed within our database of all users, they would be able to see that user's profile and make a follow request. This request will now be added to the requested user's profile as a follow request that they can accept or decline. Users can not resubmit a follow request unless the initial request is first declined. This is to prevent duplicates in the database records of their requests, which would show up to the requested user as multiple follow requests from one person. Next was the extended portion of the follow feature, which was a bonus task of the project requirements - the ability to accept and decline follow requests. The basic version of the project requirements only asked for the ability to follow a user, so as soon as a user clicked the button to follow someone, they would become a follower immediately. The option to accept or deny the follow just required us to display the name and username of the account that made the follow request based on the records in our database, and present two buttons to accept or decline the invite. Finally the user can see who they follow and who follows them. Implementing the [follow feature](https://github.com/Jazy1618/Faux_Instagram/blob/main/app.py#L285) mainly required thoughtfulness towards the SQL queries to ensure that they collected the correct information for each page template.

Even though this project broke new ground for my teammates and I, we rose to the challenge, learned a great deal about website and database design, and came away with an excellent project.
